New version of null-value-support.md (#299)
pinot-contrib/pinot-docs: developers/advanced/null-value-support.md

# Null value support

{% hint style="danger" %}
**Version warning**

This document describes null handling for Apache Pinot 1.0.0.

> This version includes two important limitations that have been addressed in the next (yet to release) version:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This version includes two important limitations that have been addressed in the next (unreleased) version:
```

1. Null handling is not supported in the [multi-stage query engine](../../reference/multi-stage-engine.md).
2. At ingestion time, null handling is a table-level configuration and does not support column-level configuration.
{% endhint %}

For performance reasons, null handling support is disabled by default in Apache Pinot.
When null support is disabled, all columns are treated as not null.
Predicates like `IS NOT NULL` evaluates to `true,` and `IS NULL` evaluates to `false`.
Aggregation functions like `COUNT`, `SUM`, `AVG`, `MODE`, etc. treat all columns as not null.

For example, the predicate in the query below matches all records.
<pre class="language-sql"><code class="lang-sql"><strong>select count(*) from my_table where column IS NOT NULL
</strong></code></pre>

> In order to handle null values in your data, you must first indicate Pinot to store nulls in your tables.

Reviewer: To handle null values in your data, you must specify nulls can be store in Pinot tables.

is this statement accurate, @gortiz? 

if so, where do you specify this nulls can be handled--is this what's discuss below?
regarding `enableNullHandling`?

Author: > is this statement accurate, @gortiz?

Yes

> if so, where do you specify this nulls can be handled--is this what's discuss below? regarding enableNullHandling?

Yep. Maybe we rephrase this part as:

`To handle null values in your data, you must configure your tables to store nulls at ingestion time`

It may be easier to understand given the later section is called `Storing nulls at ingestion time`

What do you think?

Reviewer: yes, thank you, @gortiz!

> In order to handle null values in your data, you must first indicate Pinot to store nulls in your tables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To handle null values in your data, you must configure your tables to [store nulls at ingestion time](#store-nulls-at-ingestion-time).
```

| IS NULL                  | always false       | depends on data                   | depends on data                  |
| IS NOT NULL              | always true        | depends on data                   | depends on data                  |
| Transformation functions | use default value  | use default value                 | null aware                       |
| Null aware aggregations  | use default value  | use default value                 | null aware                       |

## Default behavior

Pinot always stores column values in a [forward index](forward-index.md).
Forward index does never store null values.
They have to store a value for each row.
Therefore independent of the null handling configuration, Pinot always stores a default value for nulls rows in the forward index.
The default value used in a column can be specified in the [schema](../../configuration-reference/schema.md) 
configuration by setting the `defaultNullValue` field spec.
Remember that in the JSON used as table configuration, `defaultNullValue` must always be a String.
If the column type is not String, Pinot will convert that value to the column type automatically.

> ## Storing nulls at ingestion time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Store nulls at ingestion time
```
